pages/Filters-Overview.md, before:

Tangram is designed to work with vector tiles in a number of formats. Data sources are specified in the [`sources`](sources.md) block of Tangram's scene file. Once a datasource is specified, **filters** allow you to style different parts of your data in different ways.

The Tangram scene file filters data in two ways: with top-level **layer filters** and lower-level **feature filters**.

## Layer filters

Vector tiles typically contain top-level structures which can be thought of as "layers" – inside a GeoJSON file, these would be the _FeatureCollection_ objects. Inside a Tangram scene file, the [`layers`](layers.md) object allows you to split the data by layer, by matching against the layer name.

```yaml
layers:
    my-roads-layer:
        data:
            source: osm
            layer: roads
        style: ...
```

Specifying `layer: roads` in the [`data`](layers.md#data) block matches this GeoJSON object:

```json
{"roads":
    {"type":"FeatureCollection","features":[
        {"geometry":"..."}
    ]}
}
```
If a `layer` filter is not specified, Tangram will attempt to use the _layer name_ as the filter. In this example, the layer name "roads" matches a layer in the data:

```yaml
layers:
    roads:
        data:
            source: osm
        style: ...
```

## Feature filters

Once a top-level `layer` filter has been applied, feature-level [`filter`](layers.md#filter) objects can be defined to further narrow down the data of interest and refine the styles applied to the data.

```yaml
layers:
    roads:
        data: { source: osm }
        style: ...

        highway:
            filter:
                kind: highway
            style: ...
```

Here, a top-level layer named "roads" matches the "roads" layer in the "osm" data source. It has a `style` block, which will apply to all features in the "roads" layer unless it is overridden, functioning as a kind of "default" style.

Then, a _sublayer_ named "highway" is declared, with its own `filter` and `style`. Its `style` block will apply only to roads which match its `filter` – in this case, those with the property "kind", with a value of "highway".

#### Inheritance

Higher-level filters continue to apply at lower levels, which means that higher-level styles will be inherited by lower levels, unless the lower level explicitly overrides it.

Using sublayers and inheritance, you may specify increasingly specific filters and styles to account for as many special cases as you like.

## Matching

Each feature in a `layer` is first tested against each top-level `filter`, and if the feature's data matches the filter, that feature will be assigned any associated [`draw`](draw.md) styles, and passed on to any _sublayers_. If any _sublayer_ filters match the feature, that _sublayer_'s `draw` styles will overwrite any previously-assigned styling rules for those matching features, and so on down the chain of inheritance.

Feature filters can match any named feature property in the data, as well as a few special _reserved keywords_.

#### Feature properties

Feature properties in a GeoJSON datasource are listed in a JSON member specifically named "properties":

```json
{
    "type": "Feature",
    "id": "248156318",
    "properties": {
        "kind": "commercial",
        "area": 12148,
        "height": 63.4000000
    }
```
Analogous property structures exist in other data formats such as TopoJSON and Mapbox Vector Tiles. Tangram makes these structures available to `filter` blocks by property name, and also to any JavaScript filter functions under the `feature` keyword.

The json feature above will match these two filters:

```yaml
filter:
    kind: commercial

filter: function() { return feature.kind == "commercial"; }
```

The simplest type of feature filter is a statement about one named property of a feature.

A filter can match an exact value:
```yaml
filter:
    kind: residential
```
any value in a list:
```yaml
filter:
    kind: [residential, commercial]
```
or a value in a numeric range:
```yaml
filter:
    area: { min: 100, max: 500 }
```
A Boolean value of "true" will pass a feature that contains the named property, ignoring the property's value. A value of "false" will pass a feature that does _not_ contain the named property:
```yaml
filter:
    kind: true
    area: false
```
To match a property whose value is a boolean, use the list syntax:
```yaml
filter:
    bridge: [true]
```
A feature filter can also evaluate one or more properties in a JavaScript function:
```yaml
filter:
    function() { return feature.area > 100000 }
```

For example, let's say we have a feature with a single property called "height":

```json
{ "type":"Feature", "properties":{ "height":200 } }
```

This feature will match these filters:

```yaml
filter: { height: 200 }
filter: { height: { max: 300 } }
filter: { height: true }
filter: { unicycle: false }
filter: function() { return feature.height >= 100; }
filter: function() { return true; }
```

and will not match these filters:

```yaml
filter: { height: 100 }
filter: { height: { min: 300 } }
filter: { height: false }
filter: { unicycle: true }
filter: function() { return feature.height <= 100; }
filter: function() { return false; }
```

#### Keyword properties

The keyword `$zoom` matches the current zoom level of the map. It can be used with the `min` and `max` functions.

```yaml
filter: { $zoom: 14 }

filter: { $zoom: { min: 10 } }  # matches zooms 10 and up

filter:
    $zoom: { min: 12, max: 15 } # matches zooms 12-14
```

The keyword `$geometry` matches the feature's geometry type, for cases when a FeatureCollection includes more than one type of kind of geometry. Valid geometry types are:

- `point`: matches `Point`, `MultiPoint`
- `line`: matches `LineString`, `MultiLineString`
- `polygon`: matches `Polygon`, `MultiPolygon`

```yaml
filter: { $geometry: polygon }          # matches polygons only

filter: { $geometry: [point, line] }    # matches points and lines, but not polygons
```

#### Filter functions

The filter functions `min` and `max` are equivalent to `>=` and `<` in a JavaScript function, and can be used in combination.

```yaml
filter:
    area: { max: 10000 } }      # matches areas up to 1000 sq meters

filter:
    height: { min: 70 } }       # matches heights 70 and up

filter:
    $zoom: { min: 5, max: 10 }  # matches zooms 5-9
```

The following Boolean filter functions are also available:

- `not`
- `any`
- `all`
- `none` (a combination of `not` and `any`)

`not` takes a single filter object as its input:

```yaml
filter:
    not: { kind: restaurant }

filter:
    not: { kind: [bar, pub] }
```

 `any`, `all`, and `none` take lists of filter objects:

```yaml
filter:
    all:
        - { kind: museum }
        - function() { return feature.area > 100000 }

filter:
    any:
        - { height: { min: 100 } }
        - { name: true }

filter:
    none:
        - { kind: cemetery }
        - { kind: graveyard }
        - { kind: aerodrome }
```

#### Lists imply `any`, Mappings imply `all`

A _list_ of several filters is a shortcut for using the `any` function. These two filters are equivalent:

```yaml
filter: [ kind: minor_road, railway: true ]

filter:
    any:
        - kind: minor_road
        - railway: true
```

A _mapping_ of several filters is a shortcut for using the `all` function. These two filters are equivalent:

```yaml
filter: { kind: hamlet, $zoom: { min: 13 } }

filter:
    all:
        - kind: hamlet
        - $zoom: { min: 13 }
```

#### Matching collisions

In some cases, filters at the same level may return overlapping results:

```yaml
roads:
    data: { source: osm }
    highway:
        filter: { kind: highway }
        draw: { lines: { color: red } }
    bridges:
        filter: { kind: bridge }
        draw: { lines: { color: blue } }
```

In this case, "highways" are colored red, and "bridges" are blue. However, if any feature is both a "highway" *and* a "bridge", it will match twice. Because YAML maps are technically "orderless", there's no way to guarantee that one of these styles will consistently be shown over the other. The solution here is to restructure the styles so that each case matches explicitly:

```yaml
roads:
    highway:
        filter: { kind: highway }
        draw: { lines: { color: red } }
        highway-bridges:
            filter: { kind: bridge }
            draw: { lines: { color: blue } }
    other-bridges:
        filter: { kind: bridge, not: { kind: highway} }
        draw: { lines: { color: green } }
```

Commit message:

added $layer, alphabetized keyword properties

pages/Filters-Overview.md, after:

Tangram is designed to work with vector tiles in a number of formats. Data sources are specified in the [`sources`](sources.md) block of Tangram's scene file. Once a datasource is specified, **filters** allow you to style different parts of your data in different ways.

The Tangram scene file filters data in two ways: with top-level **layer filters** and lower-level **feature filters**.

## Layer filters

Vector tiles typically contain top-level structures which can be thought of as "layers" – inside a GeoJSON file, these would be the _FeatureCollection_ objects. Inside a Tangram scene file, the [`layers`](layers.md) object allows you to split the data by layer, by matching against the layer name.

```yaml
layers:
    my-roads-layer:
        data:
            source: osm
            layer: roads
        style: ...
```

Specifying `layer: roads` in the [`data`](layers.md#data) block matches this GeoJSON object:

```json
{"roads":
    {"type":"FeatureCollection","features":[
        {"geometry":"..."}
    ]}
}
```
If a `layer` filter is not specified, Tangram will attempt to use the _layer name_ as the filter. In this example, the layer name "roads" matches a layer in the data:

```yaml
layers:
    roads:
        data:
            source: osm
        style: ...
```

## Feature filters

Once a top-level `layer` filter has been applied, feature-level [`filter`](layers.md#filter) objects can be defined to further narrow down the data of interest and refine the styles applied to the data.

```yaml
layers:
    roads:
        data: { source: osm }
        style: ...

        highway:
            filter:
                kind: highway
            style: ...
```

Here, a top-level layer named "roads" matches the "roads" layer in the "osm" data source. It has a `style` block, which will apply to all features in the "roads" layer unless it is overridden, functioning as a kind of "default" style.

Then, a _sublayer_ named "highway" is declared, with its own `filter` and `style`. Its `style` block will apply only to roads which match its `filter` – in this case, those with the property "kind", with a value of "highway".

#### Inheritance

Higher-level filters continue to apply at lower levels, which means that higher-level styles will be inherited by lower levels, unless the lower level explicitly overrides it.

Using sublayers and inheritance, you may specify increasingly specific filters and styles to account for as many special cases as you like.

## Matching

Each feature in a `layer` is first tested against each top-level `filter`, and if the feature's data matches the filter, that feature will be assigned any associated [`draw`](draw.md) styles, and passed on to any _sublayers_. If any _sublayer_ filters match the feature, that _sublayer_'s `draw` styles will overwrite any previously-assigned styling rules for those matching features, and so on down the chain of inheritance.

Feature filters can match any named feature property in the data, as well as a few special _reserved keywords_.

#### Feature properties

Feature properties in a GeoJSON datasource are listed in a JSON member specifically named "properties":

```json
{
    "type": "Feature",
    "id": "248156318",
    "properties": {
        "kind": "commercial",
        "area": 12148,
        "height": 63.4000000
    }
```
Analogous property structures exist in other data formats such as TopoJSON and Mapbox Vector Tiles. Tangram makes these structures available to `filter` blocks by property name, and also to any JavaScript filter functions under the `feature` keyword.

The json feature above will match these two filters:

```yaml
filter:
    kind: commercial

filter: function() { return feature.kind == "commercial"; }
```

The simplest type of feature filter is a statement about one named property of a feature.

A filter can match an exact value:
```yaml
filter:
    kind: residential
```
any value in a list:
```yaml
filter:
    kind: [residential, commercial]
```
or a value in a numeric range:
```yaml
filter:
    area: { min: 100, max: 500 }
```
A Boolean value of "true" will pass a feature that contains the named property, ignoring the property's value. A value of "false" will pass a feature that does _not_ contain the named property:
```yaml
filter:
    kind: true
    area: false
```
To match a property whose value is a boolean, use the list syntax:
```yaml
filter:
    bridge: [true]
```
A feature filter can also evaluate one or more properties in a JavaScript function:
```yaml
filter:
    function() { return feature.area > 100000 }
```

For example, let's say we have a feature with a single property called "height":

```json
{ "type":"Feature", "properties":{ "height":200 } }
```

This feature will match these filters:

```yaml
filter: { height: 200 }
filter: { height: { max: 300 } }
filter: { height: true }
filter: { unicycle: false }
filter: function() { return feature.height >= 100; }
filter: function() { return true; }
```

and will not match these filters:

```yaml
filter: { height: 100 }
filter: { height: { min: 300 } }
filter: { height: false }
filter: { unicycle: true }
filter: function() { return feature.height <= 100; }
filter: function() { return false; }
```

#### Keyword properties

The keyword `$geometry` matches the feature's geometry type, for cases when a FeatureCollection includes more than one type of kind of geometry. Valid geometry types are:

- `point`: matches `Point`, `MultiPoint`
- `line`: matches `LineString`, `MultiLineString`
- `polygon`: matches `Polygon`, `MultiPolygon`

```yaml
filter: { $geometry: polygon }          # matches polygons only

filter: { $geometry: [point, line] }    # matches points and lines, but not polygons
```

The keyword `$layer` matches the feature's layer name, for cases when a data layer includes more than one source layer. In the case below, a data layer is created from two source layers, which can then be separated again by layer for styling:

```yaml
labels:
    data: { source: osm, layer: [places, pois] }
    draw:
        ...
    pois-only:
        filter: { $layer: pois }            # matches features from the "pois" layer only
        draw:
            ...
```

The keyword `$zoom` matches the current zoom level of the map. It can be used with the `min` and `max` functions.

```yaml
filter: { $zoom: 14 }

filter: { $zoom: { min: 10 } }  # matches zooms 10 and up

filter:
    $zoom: { min: 12, max: 15 } # matches zooms 12-14
```

#### Filter functions

The filter functions `min` and `max` are equivalent to `>=` and `<` in a JavaScript function, and can be used in combination.

```yaml
filter:
    area: { max: 10000 } }      # matches areas up to 1000 sq meters

filter:
    height: { min: 70 } }       # matches heights 70 and up

filter:
    $zoom: { min: 5, max: 10 }  # matches zooms 5-9
```

The following Boolean filter functions are also available:

- `not`
- `any`
- `all`
- `none` (a combination of `not` and `any`)

`not` takes a single filter object as its input:

```yaml
filter:
    not: { kind: restaurant }

filter:
    not: { kind: [bar, pub] }
```

 `any`, `all`, and `none` take lists of filter objects:

```yaml
filter:
    all:
        - { kind: museum }
        - function() { return feature.area > 100000 }

filter:
    any:
        - { height: { min: 100 } }
        - { name: true }

filter:
    none:
        - { kind: cemetery }
        - { kind: graveyard }
        - { kind: aerodrome }
```

#### Lists imply `any`, Mappings imply `all`

A _list_ of several filters is a shortcut for using the `any` function. These two filters are equivalent:

```yaml
filter: [ kind: minor_road, railway: true ]

filter:
    any:
        - kind: minor_road
        - railway: true
```

A _mapping_ of several filters is a shortcut for using the `all` function. These two filters are equivalent:

```yaml
filter: { kind: hamlet, $zoom: { min: 13 } }

filter:
    all:
        - kind: hamlet
        - $zoom: { min: 13 }
```

#### Matching collisions

In some cases, filters at the same level may return overlapping results:

```yaml
roads:
    data: { source: osm }
    highway:
        filter: { kind: highway }
        draw: { lines: { color: red } }
    bridges:
        filter: { kind: bridge }
        draw: { lines: { color: blue } }
```

In this case, "highways" are colored red, and "bridges" are blue. However, if any feature is both a "highway" *and* a "bridge", it will match twice. Because YAML maps are technically "orderless", there's no way to guarantee that one of these styles will consistently be shown over the other. The solution here is to restructure the styles so that each case matches explicitly:

```yaml
roads:
    highway:
        filter: { kind: highway }
        draw: { lines: { color: red } }
        highway-bridges:
            filter: { kind: bridge }
            draw: { lines: { color: blue } }
    other-bridges:
        filter: { kind: bridge, not: { kind: highway} }
        draw: { lines: { color: green } }
```
