pages/Scene-file.md, before:

The **scene file** is a [YAML](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML) document which organizes all of the elements Tangram uses to draw a map. YAML is a data format similar in many ways to JSON, but it has some unique features which we thought made it more friendly and easy to use for our purposes. (See the [YAML](yaml.md) entry for more about those features.)

## Top-level Elements

There are a variety of top-level elements allowed in a scene file. Each defines the beginning of a _block_ named for the element.

####`cameras`
Optional element. The `cameras` block allows modifications to the view of the map.

See [Cameras Overview](Cameras-Overview.md) and [cameras](cameras.md).

####`layers`
Required element. The `layers` block divides the data into layers and assigns styling parameters.

See [Styles Overview](Styles-Overview.md) and [layers](layers.md).

####`global`
Optional element. The `global` block allows the addition of custom named parameters which can be substituted for values elsewhere in the scene file.

See [global](global.md).

####`lights`
Optional element. The `lights` block allows control of the lighting of the map.

See [Lights Overview](Lights-Overview.md) and [lights](lights.md).

####`scene`
Optional element. The `scene` block sets various scene-wide parameters.

See [scene](scene.md).

####`sources`
Required element. The `sources` block identifies datasources.

See [sources](sources.md).

####`styles`
Optional element. The `styles` block defines rendering styles, which are composed of [materials](materials.md) and [shaders](shaders.md).

See [Styles Overview](Styles-Overview.md) and [styles](styles.md).

####`textures`
Optional element. The `textures` block allows for advanced configuration of textures within [materials](materials.md).

See [Materials Overview](Materials-Overview.md) and [textures](textures.md).


## The basics
To create a map, the scene file requires only:

- a data source
- data interpretation rules (filters)
- styling rules

Here's a very simple scene file:

```yaml
sources:
    mapzen:
        type: TopoJSON
        url: https://vector.mapzen.com/osm/all/{z}/{x}/{y}.topojson

layers:
    earth:
        data: { source: mapzen }
        draw:
            polygons:
                order: 0
                color: darkgreen
    water:
        data: { source: mapzen }
        draw:
            polygons: 
                order: 1
                color: lightblue

    roads:
        data: { source: mapzen }
        draw:
            lines: 
                order: 2
                color: white
                width: 1.5px
```

In this example, all three elements are included – this will produce a (very simple) map!

## Examples
For more examples of scene files, check out our [demos](https://github.com/tangrams?query=demo) – ours are usually named `scene.yaml`.

For even more amazing examples, check out the [Tangram Sandbox](http://tangrams.github.io/tangram-sandbox/)!

Commit message:

add links to import.md

pages/Scene-file.md, after:

The **scene file** is a [YAML](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML) document which organizes all of the elements Tangram uses to draw a map. YAML is a data format similar in many ways to JSON, but it has some unique features which we thought made it more friendly and easy to use for our purposes. (See the [YAML](yaml.md) entry for more about those features.)

## Top-level Elements

There are a variety of top-level elements allowed in a scene file. Each defines the beginning of a _block_ named for the element.

####`cameras`
Optional element. The `cameras` block allows modifications to the view of the map.

See [Cameras Overview](Cameras-Overview.md) and [cameras](cameras.md).

####`layers`
Required element. The `layers` block divides the data into layers and assigns styling parameters.

See [Styles Overview](Styles-Overview.md) and [layers](layers.md).

####`global`
Optional element. The `global` block allows the addition of custom named parameters which can be substituted for values elsewhere in the scene file.

See [global](global.md).

####`import`
Optional element. The `import` block allows other .yaml files, containing any combination of Tangram scene blocks, specified from the top-level blocks outward, up to entire scene files, to be imported into the current scene, through a simple text-based merge.

See [import](import.md).

####`lights`
Optional element. The `lights` block allows control of the lighting of the map.

See [Lights Overview](Lights-Overview.md) and [lights](lights.md).

####`scene`
Optional element. The `scene` block sets various scene-wide parameters.

See [scene](scene.md).

####`sources`
Required element. The `sources` block identifies datasources.

See [sources](sources.md).

####`styles`
Optional element. The `styles` block defines rendering styles, which are composed of [materials](materials.md) and [shaders](shaders.md).

See [Styles Overview](Styles-Overview.md) and [styles](styles.md).

####`textures`
Optional element. The `textures` block allows for advanced configuration of textures within [materials](materials.md).

See [Materials Overview](Materials-Overview.md) and [textures](textures.md).


## The basics
To create a map, the scene file requires only:

- a data source
- data interpretation rules (filters)
- styling rules

Here's a very simple scene file:

```yaml
sources:
    mapzen:
        type: TopoJSON
        url: https://vector.mapzen.com/osm/all/{z}/{x}/{y}.topojson

layers:
    earth:
        data: { source: mapzen }
        draw:
            polygons:
                order: 0
                color: darkgreen
    water:
        data: { source: mapzen }
        draw:
            polygons: 
                order: 1
                color: lightblue

    roads:
        data: { source: mapzen }
        draw:
            lines: 
                order: 2
                color: white
                width: 1.5px
```

In this example, all three elements are included – this will produce a (very simple) map!

## Examples
For more examples of scene files, check out our [demos](https://github.com/tangrams?query=demo) – ours are usually named `scene.yaml`.

For even more amazing examples, check out the [Tangram Sandbox](http://tangrams.github.io/tangram-sandbox/)!
